We started JSCAD with the 2D shapes. And i already
told you then, that there are options to turn our
2D shapes into 3D objects. And these are the
extrude functions. I have a simple rectangle
here. We can now use three different types
of extrude functions to turn this 2D object
into a 3D object. The first function is the
"extrudeLinear". I will create an extrude
variable to store our new object in and then we
will start with extrudeLinear. extrudeLinear takes
as a first parameter an object, with different
parameters that we will provide in a second.
Then as a second of course the object that we
actually want to extrude. And finally we will
push our new extrude object also into our array.
So actually linear is the most simple extrusion
function. In this case we have our 2D shape and
then we simply pull it up in one direction. And
for this we provide the "height" variable. Save
it and now we have a 3D object extruded 40 units
in one direction. But the extrudeLinear command
gives us an additional option, to modify how
the whole object is extruded. And we can use the
twistAngle and the twistSteps to twist our shape
while it's being pulled up. For this we provide
a twistAngle, so the angle at the bottom is zero
and the angle at the top is what we provide as
twistAngle. And this is also provided as radians.
So we use a little formula, say we want to rotate
it by 90 degrees then we have to twistSteps say 6.
And to make it more visible, let's increase
the height. So now we can see the object is
rotated and it's using six steps to rotate
the object. Again we already saw these kind
of segmentations of objects in the circle or
sphere objects. And this is again, to reduce
the number of polygons that you create in your
objects, to increase the render performance.
We could also increase our twist steps to create
a more smooth surface in our twisted rectangle.
And here you just need to find middle ground
between getting the right smoothness on your
object, so that you get a nice object from the
3D printer, or whatever you use. But on the other
hand, do not create too much vertices, too much
points in your polygons, because otherwise the
performance of the software that you're going
to use to process this, will decrease. The next
function is the extrudeRectangular function, we
can keep the height and in addition we need a
second parameters for size. Let's use 10. So
this one is a bit weird at least i think so.
So what happens here is ,you have to imagine
that a rectangle is passing along the outer
line of your object. The rectangle here and the
height of this rectangle that goes along the path
of your object is 100 units high and the width of
the object is 10. If we for example decrease this,
this border that is kind of created to be
extruded is shrinking. And if you reduce height
obviously the height of the object is reduced.
You can use this on all kinds of different 2D
objects. And the last function that i
want to show you is the extrudeRotate.
So here it gets a little bit more weirder,
so here we provide an angle, a start angle.
Again in radians. Let's say we start at zero and
then we provide the angle which is the endAngle.
Let's start with 90 degrees, so
we want a 90 degrees rotation,
and similar to circle and
sphere we provide segments.
What is happening here now,
you have to imagine your shape
is rotated 90 degrees. And then it starts rotating
around its own center and through the rotation,
a 3D object is created. If we
increase our rotation by 180.
But if we turn it to the
side, we can kind of see again
our rectangle. It's best explained if we change
this to an ellipse and provide an uneven radius
let's say 150 save it and then go back to 180.
If we look from the top, we can see our original
shape and if we now go to the side, we can also
see our original shape. And we now imagine that
this ellipse is now rotating around its center
and, thereby, creating this kind of object.
If we for example reduce the segments,
we can also see the steps that our
ellipse is taking and to complete this,
so again if you look from the side,
you can kind of still see the ellipse and if you
look from the top you can see that our ellipse
has now been rotating six times
and thereby creating the 3D object.